Coronavirus: Impact on the Hospitality Industry

BlackcofferHealthcareWhat We Think Coronavirus: Impact on the Hospitality Industry

May 1, 2020 5004 














Coronavirus, now globally carrying the status of a pandemic, has led to a worldwide crisis with its effects on the hospitality industry potentially heavier than those of 9/11, SARS, and the financial crisis in 2008. know how Coronavirus Impact the Hospitality Industry
This time, however, the hospitality industry has never experienced and sudden downturn. Putting the human at the Centre of the situation, the virus generates fear and impacts us in a deeply emotional way that this generation has never felt.
Covid-19 has made a massive impact in the world tourism and hospitality sector. The industry is passing through an unforeseen & unprecedented crisis. This has led to a socio-economic domino effect with a significant impact on the global tourism and hospitality industry. Thus Coronavirus Impact on the Hospitality Industry.
96% of all global destinations have imposed travel bans or restrictions by Jan 2020. The tourism & Hospitality Industry is one of the service industries which can help you enrich, enlighten & provide self- satisfaction.
The industry contributes 10.3% of Global GDP which means providing 1 in 10 jobs in the world (2019 Statistics) and 9.2% of India’s GDP providing 1 in 4 new jobs in India (Indian Statistics,2018). With global industry growth, 3.5% potentially providing 330 million jobs besides a significant source of foreign exchange is now standstill with un-paralleled and unforeseen impact







United Nations World Tourism Organisations states that “Any assessment of the impact of this unparalleled crisis on the tourism sector is quickly surpassed by the fast-changing reality. Considering the unparalleled and fast-evolving nature of the crisis, it is extremely challenging to estimate the impact of COVID-19 on international tourism”.
With the numbers rising every week, approximately 75 million jobs are affected. This is also impacting local products and vulnerable communities whose survivals depend on the incoming of more and more tourists.
Spreading the impact, almost all tourism allied industries and jobs are suffering. Because, tourism has always had a history of continued growth and resilience.
Blackcoffer Insights 17: Sukriti Shalini, ICFAI Business School, Bengaluru.



TAGSCoronavirus Impact on the Hospitality 
Previous articleLessons from the past: Some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus crisisNext articleCoronavirus impact on energy markets Ajay Bidyarthy  
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR




 What We Think 

Rise of telemedicine and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

  

 





- Advertisement -MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS




Impacts of COVID 19 on Streets Sides Food Stalls 
November 6, 2021 


 




How does AI help to monitor Retail Shelf watches? 
September 28, 2021 


 




Big Data Platform and Data Lake Tool 
August 23, 2020 


 




What Jobs Will Robots Take From Humans in The Future? 
June 25, 2021 


 Load more RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS



 What We Think 
What is the limitation of e-learning classes?

 



 What We Think 
Advance Analytics for Refocusing Profits

 



 What We Think 
Will Machine Replace The Human in the Future of Work?

 



 Software & Services 
What is Data Exfiltration?