Coronavirus, the unexpected challenge for the European union

Health Care Equipment & ServicesHealthcarePharmaceuticalPharmaceuticals, Biotechnology & Life SciencesWhat We Think Coronavirus, the unexpected challenge for the European union

March 30, 2020 4697 














Since the creation of the EU, we have been through many challenges worst than public health issues.
Human suffering and loss of life are always distressing, but member-states have done what they could to curb the spread of infection via the established partition of state boundaries, as well as internally – isolating critical cities and regions.
To people living outside the EU, it may seem strange and self-serving, when actually it is not, as the EU is not a unified federal entity with one government, legislation, language and an army.
We are however a Christian alliance, although we tolerate other religions too.
As we are still in a process of achieving closer integration, in some cases, national law still supersedes supranational (EU) law.
As each member-state participates in the EU based first on the citizenship identity of its people, it makes sense that a risk for public health involving contagion would have to be managed on a national basis.
This approach also solves language-barriers in hospitals and is more economical for each patient involved.
By no means does it mean that cooperation between member-states has stalled, or ceased. Our unity is not challenged.
Simply, we are all in need of the same resources.
There are not many companies in the EU that can produce extempore the necessary PPEs. Some restructuring of theirs and other companies’ modus operandi is needed, but I have every confidence that we will adjust.
Shortages in the human sector (i.e. medical personnel) are more difficult to tackle. 




Previous articleWhat do you think is the lesson (or lessons) to be learned with Covid 19?Next articleCode Review Checklist Ajay Bidyarthy  
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR




 What We Think 

Rise of telemedicine and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

  

 





- Advertisement -MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS




Population and Community Survey of America 
August 22, 2021 


 




Marketing Analytics Solution, a Big Data Approach 
May 1, 2019 


 




Statistical Methods for Sales Forecasting in Retail Industry 
May 24, 2017 


 




Data Analytics as a Tool to Reduce the Cost of Production... 
February 21, 2018 


 Load more RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS



 What We Think 
How you lead a project or a team without any technical...

 



 Our Success Stories 
Supplier Insights and Decision Supports for the eCommerce Outlets

 



 What We Think 
Controversy as a Marketing Strategy

 



 What We Do 
Data Management Services