How Data Analytics can help your business respond to the impact of COVID-19?

BlackcofferHealthcarePharmaceuticals, Biotechnology & Life SciencesWhat We Think How Data Analytics can help your business respond to the impact of COVID-19?

May 1, 2021 5601 














Before we get into the whole discussion, let’s first discuss the basic working of data analysis.
Data analysis is defined as a process of cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to discover useful information for business decision-making.
Using data analysis, we can extract useful information from the given data and then take corresponding decisions based upon the analyzed data.
During the pandemic known as COVID-19, many businesses failed to grow whereas many touched the sky, for example, the transportation of raw materials was drastically low because:

The nationwide lockdown was imposed,
Low production due to a smaller number of workers,
Storage facilities were shut down, and many more for such reasons.

On the other hand, new business/startups got a chance to compete in the market by getting early responses from the companies they wanted to tie up with or from the head of the companies that they wanted investments from.
The data analysis can help businesses in many ways such as:

Using different statistical models that are used in data analysis, the businesses can predict the approximate requirement for the product in the near future and hence they can produce it accordingly.
It makes it easier to track the requirement and produce the product accordingly.
Because of the lockdown, people had to start working from home, which became a huge advantage for the businesses as they would get quicker responses from their tie-ups.
Using data analysis, businesses can create several models and structures to measure the growth of the company and also to make devised plans to increase the revenues and decrease the losses.

Data analysis provides different analytical techniques such as:

Text Analysis
Statistical Analysis
Diagnostic Analysis
Predictive Analysis
Prescriptive Analysis

Using these techniques, businesses can analyze everything and predict almost anything.
These techniques, tools, and models, can help businesses tackle this horrendous situation that is COVID-19.
Blackcoffer Insights 27: SHAILI SHARMA, St. Xavier's College



TAGSData Analysis RocksData Diagnosis StatisticalData MiningFight Against CovidModelling GrowthPredictive Modelling 
Previous articleEnvironmental impact of the COVID-19 pandemic – Lesson for the FutureNext articleEvolution of Advertising Industry Ajay Bidyarthy  
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR




 What We Think 

Rise of telemedicine and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

  

 





- Advertisement -MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS




Should people wear fabric gloves? Seeking evidence regarding the differential transfer... 
March 30, 2020 


 




Marketing Analytics to Automate Leads Call Status and Reporting 
August 30, 2021 


 




Changing landscape and emerging trends in the Indian IT/ITeS Industry. 
June 22, 2020 


 




A Leading Musical Instrumental, Website SEO & Optimization 
September 5, 2021 


 Load more RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS



 What We Think 
How humans and machines are evolving to work together?

 



 What We Think 
Big Data Analytics in Healthcare

 



 What We Do 
AI, ML, Deep Learning Python Tool Deliverables

 



 What We Think 
How Metaverse is Shaping the Future?