How we forecast future technologies?

BlackcofferForecastsFutureWhat We Think How we forecast future technologies?

January 13, 2021 5563 














TECHNOLOGY is playing a dominant role in human life. And as in our daily lifestyle technology is used each and every place where human beings are present. so How we forecast future technologies? 
So, the fact is that technology is not a single immutable piece of hardware orbit chemistry. It is simply knowledge of physical relationships and it systematically applied to the useful arts. This knowledge can vary continuously over time. It can range basic phenomenon can be applied to an end product, device, or production machine in a mature operating system. Even as time passes, the performance characteristics of any machine, product, or operating system are normally improved in small continuous increments over time.
Advance in technology is usually nothing more than an accumulation of small advances not worth introducing individually to make a significant change in total technology. Forecast future technologies no matter how accurate – unless they eventually influence action.
Blackcoffer Insights 23: Arvind Pal, PACIFIC SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING, SURAT



TAGS#AI_WORLD#FATE#FUTURE_TRICKS#TECH_BEATS_EVERYONE#TECHNOLOGYforecasts future technologies 
Previous articleCan robots tackle late-life loneliness?Next articleWhat patients like and dislike about telemedicine? Ajay Bidyarthy  
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR




 What We Think 

Rise of telemedicine and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

  

 





- Advertisement -MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS




Political Intelligence Database 
June 29, 2019 


 




How Political Leaders will Shape Tomorrow using Big Data & Analytics 
April 15, 2019 


 




Website Tracking and Insights using Google Analytics, & Google Tag Manager 
July 1, 2022 


 




How will COVID-19 affect the world of work? 
April 30, 2020 


 Load more RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS



 Our Success Stories 
Stocktwits Data Structurization

 



 What We Think 
What patients like and dislike about telemedicine?

 



 What We Think 
What is the difference between Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Statistics, and...

 



 Our Success Stories 
Optimize the data scraper program to easily accommodate large files and...