Human Rights Outlook

FutureWhat We Think Human Rights Outlook

July 1, 2020 4846 














Climate change, technological advances, and unprecedented levels of inequality could mean that global disruption becomes a norm in the coming decades.
What is changing?
Read on to discover what our robot, Athena, has found on the future of this topic and act accordingly for you, your family, and organization in the years ahead. Make notes on issues that could affect you and them as you go.
If you are new to foresight, we recommend you view this slide presentation first to get the best out of this report
Speed read Athena’s high-level take-outs on the left of each slide, or delve deeper into her findings on the right.
Analysis
For a more detailed explanation of the graphics used in this presentation please click here. All outlooks based on the time period 2020-2070 and what’s likely to be happening in 2025 at a 95% confidence level unless otherwise stated. Please contact us for longer-term outlooks.
VIDEO SUMMARY
To read more and for a video summary, click here




Previous articleImpact of COVID-19 pandemic on entertainment industries such as theaters.Next articleHow Voice search makes your business a successful business. Ajay Bidyarthy  
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR




 What We Think 

Rise of telemedicine and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

 



 What We Think 

Rise of e-health and its impact on humans by the year 2030 

  

 





- Advertisement -MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS




Controversy as a Marketing Strategy 
April 28, 2020 


 




Stocktwits Data Structurization 
August 30, 2021 


 




Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on office space and co-working industries. 
June 18, 2020 


 




Benefits of Big Data in Different fields 
July 20, 2021 


 Load more RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS



 What We Think 
Oil prices by the year 2040, and how it will impact...

 



 How To 
Student Database Management System

 



 What We Do 
Playstore & Appstore to Google Analytics (GA) or Firebase to Google...

 



 What We Do 
AI, ML, Deep Learning Python Tool Deliverables